My name is Jacob Hillegass and I have been in a relationship with math since childhood. However, I have only been 
a mathematics major for a year now. For me, Math has been like that "friend" you always hang out with because you 
like them and you enjoy their company but you don't know whether you love them or not and when someone tells you 
that you are, you're in denial about it. But as time goes on you realize that people were right and you do love 
them and you live happily ever after. 

I went through high school believing that I wanted to go into some sort of engineering. Initially it was Carpentry 
because my father was always working with wood and building beautiful little creations. However, when I got to 
college, I felt drawn more toward working with metal, gears, and circuits. Therefore, I decided that I'd major in 
Mechanical Engineering. I went to Windward Community College first and got degrees in Liberal Arts, Physical 
Science, and Pre-Engineering. It seemed like Mechanical Engineering was going to be the right major for me even 
though I had yet to take a ME class. However, my first ME class is what turned me away from the major. Everything 
leading to that class seemed right, but in hindsight, it was the mathematics in it that I found interest in. 
Expressing my concerns to a friend, I was helped to realize that majoring in Mathematics was the obvious choice. 
I had already completed a bunch of the prerequisites and was still taking classes that would progress me toward a 
B.S. in Math so there was no detriment in switching to a Mathematics major.

To me, math is a puzzle waiting to be solved. There is something about the numbers and how they fit together and 
can be manipulated to answer questions that draws in my interest. My favorite classes in math by far have been 
Calculus and Geometry. A topic as simple as finding the area under a curve, determining a curve's slope at a given 
point, or even learning properties of shapes and what classifies them keeps me interested. I like to see how these 
properties work and how these "puzzles" unfold when the appropriate theorem is applied.

Now, simply said, math is about solving problems. Math is used every day whether its realized or not. Have you 
ever asked yourself if you could make it through in intersection past oncoming traffic? You’re looking at rate of 
change. Sometimes it’s more obvious, like comparing prices at the store or how much pizza you would need to buy 
for the party. More importantly, mathematics is at the basics of science. It is used to help us understand the 
world around us. Blog poster Sabine Hossenfelder stated "No, you don't need to know maths to plant a flower, to 
admire a night sky, or to like a crystal. But as in the arts, getting to know the artist and their techniques add 
to the appreciation and understanding of their work. Mathematics is the language of Nature and learning it is your 
connection to the universe. No more and no less."

In conclusion, I have loved math since I was child. I went astray in search of what I wanted to do in life, but 
math was always there and in the end, it drew me back in. Its puzzles are waiting to be solved whether it's 
determining if this triangle is isosceles or whether I can make it through this intersection in time.
